[music]
Hello, I’m Dr. Neal Schultz
[pause]
and welcome to DermTV.
Fillers, like collagen and Restylane and Juvaderm
are very common and very
popular for correcting lines and wrinkles,
some scars, creases and lots of
other contour problems. But to determine whether
filler treatments are
right for you, like any other procedure, you
need to know what are the
advantages and what are the disadvantages
and what are the pro’s and con’s.
So let me tell you. There are many advantages
to fillers. First of all,
they’re fast. Treatments can take five minutes
to fifteen minutes, and
maximum a half an hour you’re in and out
of the office. Second, they’re
relatively inexpensive for cosmetic procedures
compared to any type of
cosmetic surgery. Third, there’s no general
anesthesia, so you don’t have
to be concerned about side effects from general
anesthesia. Fourth, because
many of the fillers are not permanent, if
you’re unhappy with the result,
you have you don’t have to live with it
for the rest of your life, it will
wear off over a period of a couple of months.
Next, there’s just not much
pain involved with the injection of fillers,
particularly with the new line
of topical anesthetics that we have that diminish
discomfort and also some
of the new fillers actually have anesthesia
right inside the filler
material so that makes it less uncomfortable.
And last, there’s very little
downtime from filler treatments and usually
you can go right back to work.
You may want to put a little make up on, but
usually you can go right back
to whatever you were doing in life. In terms
of disadvantages, well, a lot
of advances in decreasing the discomfort but
there is still some pain
involved in filler treatments and that’s
very personal as to how you judge
the severity of that pain. Because most of
these are not permanent you do
have to have repeat treatments somewhere between
three and nine or twelve
months later. So, it’s an ongoing treatment
which of course involves
ongoing cost. In rare occasions there can
be allergic reactions which
result in red bumps at the location of the
filler that go away after a
couple of months and that’s annoying. And
you can get bruising as a result
of the injections and that’s not a function
of the technique of your
doctor, it’s because the filler injections
go deep and you just can’t tell
if there are any blood vessels there. But
last and most important there are
just certain limitations to what fillers can
do because fillers restore
lost volume but they don’t restore lost
elasticity so as your skin
continues to sag there’s a certain point
when fillers just don’t do enough
for you and if you want that corrected than
you do have to have cosmetic
surgery. So those are the pro’s and con’s
of fillers to help you decide…
are filler treatments right for you.